Convert to markdown!

Readme
Netsimpler CLI Tool

Overview

Netsimpler CLI is a command-line tool designed to simplify the management of Linux Netfilter (iptables and ip6tables) firewall rules. This tool provides an intuitive interface with enhanced functionality beyond ufw, including IPv6 support, rule persistence, detailed logging, and granular rule management.

Features

Manage both IPv4 and IPv6 firewall rules
Add and remove rules with fine-grained control (source/destination IPs, logging)
Persist firewall rules to survive reboots
Logging support for monitoring traffic activity
Interactive CLI for ease of use
Installation

Clone the repository:
git clone https://github.com/your-repo/netfilter-cli.git
cd netfilter-cli
Ensure you have Python installed (Python 3.6+ required).
Run the script with appropriate commands as described below.
Usage

List Firewall Rules
IPv4 Rules:
python netsimpler.py list
IPv6 Rules:
python netsimpler.py list --ipv6
Add a Firewall Rule
To add a rule, specify the chain, protocol, port, and action:

python netsimpler.py add INPUT tcp 80 ACCEPT
Additional Options:

Specify source IP: --source 192.168.1.1
Specify destination IP: --dest 10.0.0.1
Enable logging for the rule: --log
Apply to IPv6: --ipv6
Example:

python netsimpler.py add INPUT tcp 443 ACCEPT --log --source 192.168.1.100
Delete a Firewall Rule
To remove a rule, use the same parameters as when adding it:

python netsimpler.py delete INPUT tcp 80 ACCEPT
Additional options (if the rule has these attributes):

python netsimpler.py delete INPUT tcp 443 ACCEPT --source 192.168.1.100
Save and Load Rules
To make firewall rules persistent:

Save current rules:
python netsimpler.py save
Reload saved rules:
python netsimpler.py load
Permissions

This script requires sudo privileges to modify firewall rules. If needed, run:

sudo python netsimpler.py <command>
Notes

This tool is an alternative to ufw but provides more control for advanced users.
Use iptables-save and iptables-restore for manual rule backups if needed.
Always test firewall rules to ensure they don't block essential services.
Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please submit issues and pull requests to improve the tool.

License

MIT License



You are viewing a previous version
Restore this version to make edits

Restore this version

Back to latest version
